README.md, before:

# spoonify

Browse through thousands of online recipes and upload custom recipes in this web application. 

## Features

### Recipe browsing
Type in the search bar at the top of the page for a recipe and click the button or hit 'enter' to populate the results view on the left side of the page. 

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/43f2a85a-fbad-493d-a895-745b1a61beb8)

Click on a recipe from the list to reveal it in the main recipe information frame:

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6acf0e5a-c0fd-4797-837a-ce5f4a2bc00b)

---

### Sorting the Titles Alphabetically

The SORT button at the top of the results view will sort and un-sort the results upon clicking and re-clicking, respectively. 

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7499c42f-a673-4fa6-8772-37bb2daa4fcd)

---

### Pagination of the Results

If the results are greater than the limit to be displayed in the results view they will be paginated across however many pages it takes. The buttons at the bottom, found in the following image will automatically update to the correct page numbers:

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/dbd78312-7cf0-44fb-9877-12e4ddbb3e5e)

---

### Adjusting the # of servings servings

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5b1af666-3e05-4c37-aa26-cbd2440b411f)

Within the recipe view, the user has the capability to adjust the number of servings, depending on how many people they may want to feed with there recipe or for a certain amount of days they may want the meal to last for. Clicking the buttons in the above figure will allow the user to decrease and increase the servings and the quantities of each of the ingredients will automatically update. 

---

### Saving a recipe to a bookmark

The user is able to click on the bookmark button and save a recipe to a locally-stored collection of bookmarked recipes.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/716989bc-04c1-4cd6-b684-fd08c0c3d795)

The recipes then show up on the list that appears when hovering over the view bookmarks button. If the user clicks on a recipe from this bookmarks list it will automatically take them to the bookmarked recipe.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/03841558-ded5-4d63-a6a4-3fe78a5987c3)

A user can also **remove** a bookmark by simply clicking the bookmark button again.

---

### Uploading a custom recipe to the API

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1d9c1918-d21f-4cc6-bf60-e53b4ec8141e)

Filling in the form with specified in placeholder text and format shown in *Ingredient 6* field of the form and clicking enter uploads the recipe to the API, which will allow the user to search for the recipe.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/796bdf46-9ef5-446c-ac57-fa6b317e3333)

In addition, this process will add the user-generated recipe as a bookmark.

---

### Deleting a user-generated Recipe

The user-generated recipes show up when searching for a keyword that is present in a user-generated recipe or by clicking on a bookmark for a user-generated recipe.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c21c3099-cb24-45be-8dde-03e3aeaf4263)

User-generated recipes can be deleted by clicking the remove button at the bottom of the recipe.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e0e65404-6581-4b45-98dc-56fb731613f7)

Clicking this button will remove the recipe from the results and from the bookmarks as well.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/cd0a14f5-0f27-4911-9d6e-8fb02a9f1ccb)

Commit message:

Update README.md with installation directions

README.md, after:

# spoonify

Browse through thousands of online recipes and upload custom recipes in this web application. 

## How to Install

To install the application ensure that Node.js is installed with Node Package Manager (npm) [https://nodejs.org/en/download/prebuilt-installer].
Once installed, run 

```
  npm install
```

from a terminal instance in the base directory to install all required node modules. The package.json file contains a script for running the server and another for building the distro version c/w Babel and polyfilling. 
To run the web application locally, type

```
  npm start
```

into the terminal instance. This will run the server locally at https://127.0.0.1:1234, which can be navigated to in a browser to see the web application. 

## Viewing the Application online

I have published the dist folder from building with Babel and parcel (with poly-fill for older browsers) at [https://spoon-ify.netlify.app] for easy viewing if desired.

## Features

### Recipe browsing
Type in the search bar at the top of the page for a recipe and click the button or hit 'enter' to populate the results view on the left side of the page. 

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/43f2a85a-fbad-493d-a895-745b1a61beb8)

Click on a recipe from the list to reveal it in the main recipe information frame:

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6acf0e5a-c0fd-4797-837a-ce5f4a2bc00b)

---

### Sorting the Titles Alphabetically

The SORT button at the top of the results view will sort and un-sort the results upon clicking and re-clicking, respectively. 

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7499c42f-a673-4fa6-8772-37bb2daa4fcd)

---

### Pagination of the Results

If the results are greater than the limit to be displayed in the results view they will be paginated across however many pages it takes. The buttons at the bottom, found in the following image will automatically update to the correct page numbers:

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/dbd78312-7cf0-44fb-9877-12e4ddbb3e5e)

---

### Adjusting the # of servings servings

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5b1af666-3e05-4c37-aa26-cbd2440b411f)

Within the recipe view, the user has the capability to adjust the number of servings, depending on how many people they may want to feed with there recipe or for a certain amount of days they may want the meal to last for. Clicking the buttons in the above figure will allow the user to decrease and increase the servings and the quantities of each of the ingredients will automatically update. 

---

### Saving a recipe to a bookmark

The user is able to click on the bookmark button and save a recipe to a locally-stored collection of bookmarked recipes.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/716989bc-04c1-4cd6-b684-fd08c0c3d795)

The recipes then show up on the list that appears when hovering over the view bookmarks button. If the user clicks on a recipe from this bookmarks list it will automatically take them to the bookmarked recipe.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/03841558-ded5-4d63-a6a4-3fe78a5987c3)

A user can also **remove** a bookmark by simply clicking the bookmark button again.

---

### Uploading a custom recipe to the API

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1d9c1918-d21f-4cc6-bf60-e53b4ec8141e)

Filling in the form with specified in placeholder text and format shown in *Ingredient 6* field of the form and clicking enter uploads the recipe to the API, which will allow the user to search for the recipe.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/796bdf46-9ef5-446c-ac57-fa6b317e3333)

In addition, this process will add the user-generated recipe as a bookmark.

---

### Deleting a user-generated Recipe

The user-generated recipes show up when searching for a keyword that is present in a user-generated recipe or by clicking on a bookmark for a user-generated recipe.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c21c3099-cb24-45be-8dde-03e3aeaf4263)

User-generated recipes can be deleted by clicking the remove button at the bottom of the recipe.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e0e65404-6581-4b45-98dc-56fb731613f7)

Clicking this button will remove the recipe from the results and from the bookmarks as well.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/cd0a14f5-0f27-4911-9d6e-8fb02a9f1ccb)
